Q: decrease of rate with height of the pressure surface is less?
A: in warm air
Q: Then a vertical height between pressure levels (but worded weird)
A: less in cold air
 Q: The tropopause is
A: Higher and colder above warm air
Q: Your at FL280 and its -48C what is the ISA temp?
A: ISA -8C (I know it's not technically right but it was the closest answer other answers were -11C, +8C, +6C)
Q: Coriolis force
A: Rotation of the Earth
Q: A descending parcel of air....
A: compresses (more to the answer but it was pretty easy to guess)
Q: Frontal fog develops?
A: In front of a warm front
Q: 250hpa pressure level corresponds to...
A: FL340
Q: Def of density altitude
A: pressure alt and OAT
Q: an Aircrafts indicated altitude is lower than it's true altitude.
A: when the air is warmer than indicated
Q: virga means?
A: dry micro burst

3 jet stream questions
3 fog questions (one was weirdly worded...something like. Extensive fog forms over Eastern North America in April. What Air mass is responsible? Answer is cA.
Next fog questions was fog forms over water but not land what is responsible? Answer is dry cold air mass and offshore flow.
Other one was fog over the threshold? Answer was slant visibility greater than RVR
2 Radiation Fog questions
Question about: Mature wave of a front moves parallel to the isobars in the warm sector.
Q: If your descending into an airport and its reporting Ice Pellets and show what do you expect on descent?
A: freezing rain, moderate icing
Q: daytime wind blows up a slope?
A: Anabatic
Q: supercooled droplet...
A: increase with height if temps right below 0
Q:Dissapating stage of a thunderstorm?
A: downdrafts throughout  while cell except the top
Q: Aerodynamic heating
A: airspeed has to be at least 500kts to prevent icing
A couple mountain wave questions. Where are lenticular clouds? Answer Top of wave crest
Where is worst turbulence? Answer is Rotor clouds and below
Q: on a constant pressure  chart contour or altitude gradient is?
A: Slope.of pressure surface
There was a CAT question. Where to find it? Had to pick from a bunch
A couple GFA questions pretty easy to decipher.

I got the decode a pirep wrong of course. Not sure why

 WAFC sig wx chart. Why does jet stream change direction? Answer is around a low

Wx radar question: what does the hook mean. Answer is Possible tornado

Question about micro burst: position C (same as slide) AoA and lift Decrease.

2 GPS questions: 1 overlay and one raim?

TCAS question. They ask about TCAS II (but call it ACAS tricky tricky). And its answer is can give you TAs and RAs.

Q: What give greatest echo on wx radar?
A: Rain (gives you other answers snow, wet snow and hail)

Q: why is it hard to show embedded CBs when flying in cloud and heavy precip?
A: Attenuation

Critical point question: what will and increase in tailwind do? Answer distance will be closer to departure point.

Q: Natmnps question
A: need 2 long range navigation systems.
