1. Aerodynamic heating is 500kts to... prevent icing
2. Large super cooled water droplets are found... Lower levels of cloud in unstable air where temps are few degrees below zero
3. As frequency increases what happens to attenuation? ( Attenuation increase and reception distance decrease)
4. What is the lowest reception distance of a VOR ( use the reception range formula to get the answer, think it was 50nm ...... 1500ft.)
5. High cumulus clouds has rain falling from it. What does that mean ( dry microburst. )
6.worst turbulence for mountain wave (rotor cloud and below)
7. ILS localizer full scale deflection ... Both sides of center (5 degrees)
8. What's a volmet (taf,metatarsals, sigmets on frequency found in CFS)
9. What gives you greatest radar returns ( wet hail, rain, wet snow.... The answer was rain there was no option for wet hail)
10. Vertical distance between two specific pressure levels. ( In cold air due to its increased density.. the air pressure will be greater with height)
11. What happens to A of A and lift at position 3... Like the slide... ( Both decreases)
12. That sun up.. frequency up question.Â 
13. In the northern hemisphere the frontal system tends to move..(parallel with the warm sector isobars)
14. During flight in the lower levels towards warm from you notice precipitation changes from steady rain to showers what does this mean(warm air is moist and unstable )
15. The airport your landing at is saying there's ice pellets and snow you can expect ( moderate icing and freezing rain on approach)
16. Hooks and fingers on wx radar(possible tornado
17.on GFA it had a low level jet. I said it was from a nocturnals jet stream. Not sure if I got it wrong I had 2 "decode a GFA" on my exams..... ðŸ˜‚ But know where nocturnals jets come on GFA
18. Ads-b. I got it wrong. It was asking to state the false statement. .....
19. Gps overlay approach and standalone GPS. (Don't have to monitor for overlay, and NAV aid doesn't have to be working)
20. What is waas?
21. Under what conditions will fog form off the coast of Canada over ocean but not land...(cold dry airmass with off shore flow)
22. What happens to the ground wave as frequency increases.Â 
23. Nat tracks reporting... 10degrees of long south of 75degrrees north latitude.Â 
24. What's mlat ( based off transponder)
25. Explains ADF coastal effectÂ 
26. Doing approach with an alt setting higher than 31.00 " hg. ( 100ft and 1/4 sm for every 0.1)
27. Warm fronts found in Canada during summer
28. Warm fronts found in Canada during winter.Â 
28. Question about cold frontal weather.. you notice cumulus clouds... What do you expect ( if the frontal surface is steep( rapidly moving cold front) and no areas of vert development.... The warm airmass has a low relative humidity...))
29. What's density altitude.(pressure alt and oat)
30. Aircraft equipment for NAT MNPS( 2 long range NAV)
31. Most turb with mountain wave?( Rotor cloud and below)
32.lenticular clouds form where?( Wave crest)
33. Effect a tail wind will have on critical point (cp moves in direction the wind is coming from... So from departure it will be closer to departure airport)
34. Constant pressure chart, the contour or altitude gradient can be considered as the (slope of the pressure surface)
35. Describe anabatic wind ( day time heating upslops)
36. Gas transforms directly to a solid (deposition)
37. In early spring fog forms on vicinity of Toronto ...the air mass responsible...(I said mT)
38. Fog over threshold (slant vis is greater than RVR)
39. You are at and airport which experience the passage of a cold front in early afternoon.... Shortly after the skies clear. What happens to temp during next 12 hours ( temp increase then decrease)
40. It's raining outside your plane. ..... And asked you why the wx radar doesn't work well (attenuation)
41. How to know when dissipation stage of thunderstorm.. I got it wrong.Â  It said 1) presence of a roll cloud 2) there a presence of down drafts through the bottom not the top...????)

What's cockpit management system.?

Also had a IR satellite image ... And asked you what the clouds where like at a specific point. It had a hurricane in the photo and asked what the clouds where like... Sorta outside the very edge of it.. so I said high cirrus cloud.Â 

Also the questions and jet stream clouds... So got me thinking..... :P I have no idea where or how or what types. So I guessed whispy clouds. And that jet streams from in breaks of the troposphere. Not sure if I got those right or wrong. (They were 2 different questions)
