1) What would make indicated altitude lower in relation to true altitude? Warm or cold air, dense air, etc…
2) “Pick the best list” of things relating to the 406 ELT.
3) PIREP with the location as a radial/DME. Asked you to pick the best answer. Options were “PIREP was reported at Radial/DME” and “Occurred at Radial/DME”. 
4) Stormscope detects:
	a) turbulence in cloud, b) turbulence in rain, c) lightening, d) all
5) Factors that affect radio reception for VHF/LF. For VHF I picked altitude. For LF I picked Ionosphere. The other option for LF had power and something else…
6) What type of air mass  and wind would produce fog over coastal waters, not on land. Answers have offshore winds and onshore winds plus cold/dry air mass and warm/moist airmass.1
7) Question about tailwind component on flightplan to the alternate, and how much fuel would be remaining at the destination.
8) Night VFR fuel calculation, how much fuel needed for a turboprop.
9) Classic radar reflectivity. Doesn’t ask for the order but gives a list to pick the most reflective. Answer is rain. Has hail as an option, but not wet hail.
10) What type of electromagnetic waves have the best range: VHF/UHF/etc…
11) Low level airway width.
12) “Pick the best list” of characteristics of HF comms. I got the freq range incorrect.
13) DME charactersics. Answer has paired pulses in it.
14) RMI question. Heading is 180, magnetic bearing is 240, what is the heading you need to turn to if you want to intercept the 180 radial outbound.
15) How RAIM works; does it detect satellite outages/faults or does it correct/compensate for it.
16) Does RAIM have fault detection capabilities?
17) Components of EFIS.
18) Radalt doesn’t work, which system does if affect? GPWS.
19) If you’re planning to conduct GNSS approaches at your destination and alternate… Answer is that they have to be 100nm apart.
20) Experience moderate rain and trying to detect CB’s. Answer is adjusting the gain. They have an answer about a contouring feature.
21) Tricky worded question about being above the freezing level AND detecting CB’s while flying at 30K. How far to avoid the cells? I picked 10NM. Other answers were 5 and 20, 30NM,
22) MLAT uses…
23) Pick what ADSB DOES NOT do: crew monitoring, ATC real time, weather info, collision alerts/advisories.
24) Tricky worded question about differences/capabilities of different types of TCAS. I recall it said something to do with conflict avoidance for TCAS I.
25) SSB
26) IFR Outlook: cig less than 1000ft and vis less than 3sm. I picked “and/or”.
27) What is a contour line.
28) “Pick the best list” to do with LWIS. What it provides, can’t be used for alternate, etc..
29) What type of clouds does drizzle and freezing drizzle form in.
30) Definition of squall line.
31) Names of the fronts associated with weather masses in Canada.
32) List conditions needed for a low level nocturnal jet.
33) Where would CAT be worst around a jet stream.
34) Where is a SLCC located on mountain waves? Answer is below the crest.
35) Conditions needed for radiation fog.
36) 2 questions on how clouds are formed during warm and cold fronts. Answers both have to do with expansional cooling. 
37) What does VIRGA indicate.
38) Something to do with saturated air condensing with reference to humidity.
39) Wind is blowing 30 degrees across isobars at the surface at 20 kts. What would it be at 3K? answers have a variety of angles including 20 degrees and 30 kts. I picked 0 degrees and 30 kts.
40) Question asked what was the height of a high pressure system just west of Rankin. Look at both the 250 anal to get the altitude in meters, and look at the GFA.
41) When is RIME icing most likely to occur: cloud type and temp range.
42) Various questions about temp ranges of a variety of icing. Including one about cumulus and convective clouds, ie. most likely form of ice.
43) 500 kts to prevent airframe icing.
44) Classic question about affects on an aircrafts speed/AOA during downdraft.
45) GFA: identify why an airport is experiencing turbulence: LLJ.
46) Flight from Vancouver to Alaska, identify the type of icing and turbulence.
47) When is a flightplan not required. Answers are military airfield/US/etc…
48) Definition of Eye to Wheel height: on ground, on approach at VRef (I picked), level flight, etc…
49) Two “pick the best list” questions about VASIS. Study up!
50) Frequencies used at night using an ADF/NDB – use lower frequency.
51) What does ATC see from your mode C: indicated, pressure, density, true altitude.
52) What does the TROWAL symbol on a GFA look like.
53) What do you do if you fly in to a thunderstorm.
54) Pick the true statement from a list of PIREPS. Don’t confuse “RM” aka remarks, with “RIME”, as this is one of the answers. I picked the answer to do with the lowest base of cloud.

Pay attention in the met practical questions to wording. Sometimes you will need to refer to both the GFA’s and the Analysis. A few tricky questions about picking the airport that WILL experience the worst icing during a forecast period. 2 airports are similar, Fort Mac and Lynn Lake.  Calgary was another option. Fort Mac was worse at the time and the system seemed to be moving towards Lynn Lake. I picked Lynn Lake. METAR and TAF questions were fairly easy.

No questions on: Critical Point, Satellite weather interpretation, NATMNPS or CMNPS.

